I'm very happy to meet you by the way.
It was very nice to talk to you.
I'm used to talk to people.
You are my first.
And also, you know, you are a scholar first.
And very often, if you meet journalists, they are not so scholars.
Well, they don't read the books first.
No, that's one thing.
And the other thing is also that you are a bibliomania.
I specialize in books.
All I write about is books and authors.
And it's always a question, bibliomania.
What is the word?
I even traced the history of the Lord.
I traced it to his first years.
And I even wrote Bernard Knox.
Life is but a walking shadow of poor players.
And then he's heard no more.
It's a player who walks out.
Nobody's copying it down, no tape recorder.
He says the words and they vanish.
It is a tale told by an idiot.
And then he says, and then the next line is, out, out, breathe candle.
That's right.
Out, out, breathe candle.
That's the beginning.
Line is better walking shadow.
It blows up again.
You know, Goethe, you know, the German writer.
Goethe here in the epigraph.
What's the purpose of all the creative power when... Well, I was always amused when they said that existentialism was an invention of, you know... Of course, yes.
But the expression was invented in 1920.
But the concept is highly... You're right.
You're completely right.
You may say that so matters.
And even Buddha was an existential thinker.
I think as soon as we're able to talk, and to think, and to look at the sky, and to know that you will die, then you'll become an existentialist.
You know Buddha?
Yeah, exactly.
You know, of course.
Buddha, he was met a man, coming to him, saying,
Mr. Buddha, dear Buddha, why don't you tell us more about life after death?
Why don't you tell, what is your theory, what is your theory, you know?
Vendrida said, if a man is wounded, wounded, wounded by an arrow in the heart, he wouldn't ask, what is this arrow made of?
Who shot this arrow?
What case cost, what did he come from?
Case?
Varnak.
Anyway, he would just ask them to remove him and to heal him.
Thank you.
This is wonderful.
This is very, very nice.
See, that's medium.
You don't want it well done.
No, this was very, very nice.
I'm going to shut this off for a while while we... Say that again.
Say that again.
It will be translated now.
Bull?
in portuguese in portugal and in brazil two different portuguese translations two different portuguese translations and also two different spanish languages and it comes in in japan not that but they have the castellano and what do they say in barcelona they talk some different i don't remember i don't remember and it will be translated into japanese chinese
Korea, Turkey, and of course all the great European languages.
So you really tapped into something, haven't you?
Trapped, yes.
Oh, I thought you said trapped because I feel it in a way to be trapped too.
You do?
That's not what I asked, but I'd love to hear the answer to that.
Because, you know, in a way, I get so many offers I cannot refuse.
You know?
Because I am enjoying this, but I am traveling a little bit more than I love.
You know.
You have children?
Yes.
And my wife is just 100 meters from here.
And so, you know, I maybe I thought that actually maybe I should
If we are sitting a little longer, I should go and get her.
She can kind of sit and have a dinner.
Because she expected me about 7 o'clock.
That's 20 minutes.
We'll be done.
Yeah, okay.
But... What are you doing next?
What's next?
I'll...
you can manage to write again, because, you know, of course, everything.
I think so.
And I did, after Sophia's World, write two new novels.
The one is called The Christmas Mystery, and the other is called In the Darkly Mirror.
And so, well, I think mine is protected.
I've been asked now, from the publishing house,
to write a little book, philosophical book, a book for wondering for young children, six years old.
Oh, wonderful.
Because now... Probably the pictures.
Yes, the pictures.
Because earlier, the children, they were seven years old when they went to school, now they are six, in a way.
And then they need something for the six years old people, something to make them curious to learn.
and to read, you know, like that.
But this will be a book without even mentioning names as Socrates and Plato, you know, just a book about the world.
You know, one thing I really should say is that, you know, in Norway and baby here, something has been very common lately, recently, and that is the so-called baby swimming lessons, you know?
We've had them here, right?
Yeah.
What it is about is that you run into a hospital, take this midwife away, and take the kid, run to a swimming pool, throw the kid in the swimming pool, and the kid is not drowning.
Because it's an inborn ability, you know, to manage the water.
I think in the same way, to wonder about life is an inborn ability.
But it has to be pendant.
In a way, to wonder about life is nothing we learn.
It's something we forget.
We don't learn to wonder about life.
We forget to wonder about life.
So, then I think that to wonder about life must depend the truth.
It looks like if we don't learn to swim as babies, we have to go to swimming school.
With these terrible things here, you know, and these things here.
You know, very stupid.
And the same with philosophy.
If you don't start philosophy as young and keep it standard, then we have to go to philosophy school as adults.
Use equipment, water wings, we used to call it.
Exactly.
Then you have to use this language, water wings and all these things.
Very academical, you know.
In a way it sounds very strange that this book on philosophy is written by a man from this little tiny little country Norway.
However, we do have an institution in Norway called Examen Philosophikum.
which all students must pass before they go on studying biology, language, history, anything.
So that means that we have really a great philosophical milieu, you know.
So in Oslo there lives 600,000 people, you know, but there are 60 philosophy teachers, you know, 60 philosophy teachers.
Six, is that a lot?
Sixty.
Sixty, that is a lot.
It's in a town with 600,000 people, and there are 60 philosophy teachers, because it's a student town, and all students have to reflect it.
Maybe.
So my book is, in a way, a reflex of this huge philosophical milieu, in a way.
Okay.